**Week 1; Hello Python!**
1. [Course Intro](#course-introduction)
1. [Intro to Programming](#introduction-to-programming)
> I've linked each sub headings to its main heading, don't get lost and confused or make it chichè
# Course Introduction
1. [Specialization Intro](#specialization-introduction)
1. [Course Intro](#course-introduction-1)
## Specialization Introduction
*Working in IT is more than just a job. It's a career path. Research shows that the field of IT support is a launchpad for future career growth and better wages. In fact, a study on the subject was recently conducted by the Harvard Business School Accenture and Burning Glass entitled Bridge the Gap. It found that among today's middle-skilled jobs which require training but not a formal college degree, IT support offers clear pathways to prosperity. We saw this phenomenon play out here at Google, in our IT support program. Those who push themselves to learn how to code in Python typically saw strong career growth. They built skills that are critical to accessing higher level positions in the IT field, and after honing those skills through hard work and determination, they advanced into more technical IT support specialists. Systems administrators, technical solutions engineers, and even site reliability engineers. The common thread across all of these roles is knowing how to write code to solve problems and automate solutions. By expanding your toolbox to include coding skills, you open a window into the world of systems management that can lead you towards more advanced technical roles down the line. Python in particular is having a huge surgeons. According to the 2019 Stack Overflow Developer Survey, Python is the coding language most people want to learn. The second most loved by those who already know it and the fourth most popular overall. So why take this program to learn how to code in Python? Well, first it's geared towards people who are already in or aspiring to be in the field of IT. Maybe you're thinking bigger about your current IT role and want to work towards managing operations at scale, or maybe you're just starting out and looking to break into the IT industry. Perhaps you've taken our IT Support Professional Certificate program on Coursera already, or you have equivalent IT support knowledge with basic computing skills, like working with files and directories, familiarity with networking concepts, and understanding how to install software on your computer. In any case, this program is tailor-made for you. Second, this program offers three hands-on methods of teaching coding and Python and automation. Code blocks, Jupyter notebooks, and Qwiklabs. Third, we've assembled an awesome group of Googlers who will serve as your instructors in each course. They all started their careers in IT support then learned programming and moved onto more technical roles like me. We can't wait to share our stories with you on how we use Python in our day-to-day. Oh and hey, I should probably introduce myself. My name is Christine Rafla, and I'm a Systems Administrator at Google. I will be your instructor in this course. This program has been entirely designed and developed by Google and we even filmed each course at different cool Google spaces. It will introduce you to the Python programming language with a special focus on how this language applies to automating tasks in the world of IT systems support and administration. I'm super excited to be here with you. When I was younger, I had no idea that careers in IT even existed. There are a lot of reasons I wanted to participate in the certificate program. But one of my biggest motivations is that I want to see more women represented in the industry. I remember going to a System Administration Summit where there were hundreds of men and about three women that were sysadmins. A lot has changed since then but there's still so much we can do to bring new ideas and representation into the IT field. That's why I want to share my knowledge with as many people as possible. I love my job and I love the people I work with because they make it easy to ask for help and offer their guidance. This type of support network allows our team and ultimately our industry to be more successful. I understand from experience that it can feel pretty intimidating and maybe even a bit scary to learn a coding language. Just remember, everyone started where you are right now with the first command, the first script, and of course, the first of many errors. When I started out in my career, I strive to get everything perfectly right the first time I tried it. But that actually slowed down my progress. So don't be afraid to make mistakes, it will give you a leg up. So let's get down to it. What's ahead? The program begins with a crash course in Python where you will learn to write simple programs and understand their role in automation. Next, we'll get more hands-on focus on how Python interacts with the operating system. After that, we'll cover how to use Git and GitHub to manage versions of your code. Then we will focus on troubleshooting and debugging techniques to find and solve the root cause of problems in IT infrastructure. The next course covers automating at scale where you will learn to deploy configuration management on a fleet of either physical or virtual machines running in the Cloud. Last up, we will bring all this knowledge together and complete a final project designed to solve tasks that you might encounter in real-world IT settings. Bonus, you can post your projects to GitHub to show off your fancy new skills to employers or friends or both. That was a lot to rattle off. Are you excited or what? Now I'd like to quickly introduce you to my fellow instructors who you will get to meet along the way. Hey, my name is Roger Martinez. I'm a Linux System Administrator, and I'll be your instructor in the course on using Python's interacts with operating system. Hi. I'm Kenny Sulma, and I'll be your guide in the course about using Git and GitHub to manage versions of your code. Hi there. I'm Amanda Ballas, and I'll be teaching you about troubleshooting and debugging. Hey, I'm Phelan Vendeville, and in my course, we'll learn about Automation at scale using Configuration Management and the Cloud. Thanks everyone. This all-star team was brought together to guide you on your adventures in coding. You're in very good hands. Okay, I think that's everything. Let's get ready to learn some new skills and maybe even have some laughs along the way. I'll see you in the next video.*

## Course Introduction
*If you work in IT, computer programming skills open up an incredible amount of opportunity. Being able to write scripts and programs that tell your computer to perform a task equips you with an invaluable tool. Not only does it make your work easier and more efficient, it can help you grow faster and advance further in your IT career. But how do you even start to learn a programming language like Python? How do you recognize when to tell a computer to perform a task? And how do you then write a program to actually get your computer complete the task you want it to do? The thought of learning to write a program in Python can make you feel a whole bunch of emotions excitement, anticipation that feeling of wanting to dive right in and get going and also fear. You might ask yourself, can I really learn how to code or do I have it in me? I'm here to tell you, yes, you can absolutely do this. Learning how to program can be scary and intimidating, but at the same time it's really fun and really exciting. In coding as in life, if we're going to get philosophical, the most rewarding work is usually a bit challenging, but ultimately well worth the effort. Of course, I'm able to say all this from experience, especially the cheesy parts. My name is Christine Rafla. I'm a systems administrator at Google and I'm going to be your instructor and guide in this course. The role of a sysadmin can vary a lot from company to company and even within different teams in the same company. I happen to work in the corporate identity and access management operations team, which is a really long way of saying that we make sure that everyone is represented correctly and if they need to access certain resources, they can. What I love the most about being a sysadmin is that the role has so many diverse functions. We handle loads of unique problems and edge cases from tinkering with different systems to collaborating with other teams. I am always learning something new, so it's really hard to get bored. It all starts with knowing how to automate, if you're an IT support specialist, a systems administrator, or in a role somewhere in between knowing how to get computers to do the hard work for you will set you apart from others in similar it roles and make your life much easier. Think about it, would you rather manually deploy 100 computers on your own or tell your computer to do it all for you all at once? No-brainer, right, having a coding skill set can help you grow into more specialized roles like a systems administrator, Cloud Solutions engineer, DevOps specialist, site reliability engineer, or who knows maybe even web developer or data analyst. The point is, being able to write a program is an essential tool in your IT toolkit and more and more employers are looking for these skills in the people they hire. If you've ever learned a new skill, like playing a musical instrument, speaking a foreign language, knitting, or skateboarding. You know that getting good at something new requires a lot of practice. For me, I love to learn new languages and I'm proud to say I speak Spanish, Arabic, French, and I even know ten words in Russian. Our world is shaped by the words and the languages we speak and while some words may be unique to one language you can always find similarities that help you learn and understand. Being able to connect the dots between cultures allows me to see things others might not, kind of sounds like this applies to IT programming,huh? My point is, whether you're learning French or Python, it 's never easy. You have to start small, learn the basics and practice those until you master them. Only then can you move on to more complex and impressive stuff and I'm here to help you along that path along with my colleagues who you'll meet in later courses. We'll start slow, master the foundation's together and you'll soon be ready for more challenging stuff. So are you wondering why we filmed this course in a cabin on a lake in Canada. The truth is were actually in a game room at one of the Google offices in Sunnyvale, California. We chose a different themed office space for each course of the program just to mix things up and I think I scored with this one. I should warn my manager that I'll be hanging out in this one well after the course ends because it's super comfy. By the end of this course, you'll understand the benefits of programming in IT roles. You'll be able to write simple programs using Python, figure out how the building blocks of programming fit together, and combine all this knowledge to solve a complex programming problem. That's right, by the end of this course, you're going to write a program in Python that's designed to solve a real-world IT problem, super exciting right? We'll start off by diving into the basics of writing a computer program. You'll get hands-on experience with programming concepts through interactive exercises and real-world examples. You'll quickly start to see how computers can perform a multitude of tasks. You just have to write code that tells them what to do. Along the way, we'll be talking about automation, which is process of getting computers to automatically do a task that us humans normally have to do by hand. Now, some of the stuff can get a little complex and confusing. I promise to do my best to make these lessons clear and easy to understand, but if you get stuck at any point, please feel free to re-watch the videos. Practice as much as you like and take the time you really need to stand these topics. The goal of this course isn't to teach you everything there is to know about software engineering because yikes, that would be a long course. Instead, we're going to introduce you to some of the key concepts of programming and scripting that will empower you to spot opportunities for automation in real life. You're about to learn a skill that can help you take your career to whole new levels. Are you excited? I'm excited, so let's jump in*

# Introduction to Programming
1. [Beginning of ur Program. Journey](#the-beginning-of-your-programming-journey)
1. [What's Program.](#whats-programming)
1. [What's Automation](#whats-automation)
1. [Practice Quiz; Intro to Program.](#practice-quiz-introduction-to-programming)

## The Beginning of Your Programming Journey

- *As the Chinese proverb says, a journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step. Today's a big day, you're taking your first step in your journey to learn how to write scripts in Python.*

- *You'll learn what a programming language is, what scripting is, what languages are out there other than Python, and how this all relates to IT.*

## What's Programming?

- *At a basic level, a computer program is a recipe of instructions that tells your computer what to do. When you write a program, you create a step by step recipe of what needs to be done to complete a task and when your computer executes the program it reads what you wrote and follows your instructions to the letter. The recipe is written in a code called programming language.*

- *Programming languages are actually similar to humans spoken languages since they have a syntax and semantics.*

- *In a human spoken languages, syntax is the rules for how a sentence is constructed while semantics refers to the actual meaning of the statements.*

- *In English Grammar, a sentence has a subject and predicate; that subject may be built using determiners, nouns, adjs. etc while the predicate may have verbs, conjuctions etc and there are certain rules build the sentence, called syntax. Thereafter a sense or meaning is fetched thru the sentence, called semantics. The same applies to the programming languages like Python.*

- *Apart from the human languages, the programming languages say; syntax is the rules for how each instruction is written and the semantics is the effects the instructions have.*

- *Much like spoken languages, there are lots of programming languages to choose from. Each has its own history, features, and applications but they all share the same fundamental ideas. So once you understand the basic concepts in one programming language, it becomes much easier to learn another.*

- *Lastly, computers always do exactly what they're told. So when you write a program, it's important to be super clear about what you want the computer to do.*

## What's Automation?

- *Automation is the process of replacing a manual step with one that happens automatically.*

- *Let's face it, us humans are flawed and sometimes we make mistakes, a human performing the same tasks hundreds of times will never be as consistent as a machine doing the same thing.*

- *But for all of its advantages automation isn't a solution for every situation, some tasks just aren't suited for automation. For example, they may require a degree of creativity or flexibility that automatic systems can't provide or for more complicated or less frequently executed tasks creating the automation may actually be more effort or cost than it's worth.*

## Practice Quiz; Introduction to Programming

1. What's a computer program?
* [ ] A set of languages available in the computer
* [ ] A process for getting duplicate values removed from a list
* [ ] A list of instructions that the computer has to follow to reach a goal
* [ ] A file that gets copied to all machines in the network